Let's cover briefly
the subject of independence.
We alluded to this earlier,
in that we said that A is independent of B
if the probability of A given B
is equal to the probability A for
an event B that has positive probability.
Another definition of independence is
that the prob, A and B are independent if
the probability of A intersect B works out
to be the product of their probabilities.
This then begins a very important lesson.
You can't just multiply
probabilities willy-nilly.
You have to multiply independent prob,
probabilities associated with
the independence events.
Let's go thru a numerical example.
What is the probability of
getting two consecutive heads?
Well, let's define A as the probability
of getting a head on flip one and
B as the probability of
getting a head on flip two.
Both probabilities are 0.5.
In this case, we're assuming a fair coin.
A intersect B is the event of
getting heads on flips one and two.
In this case, because the events
are independent the probability of
A intersect B is the product
of the probabilities.
And so we would say that it's 0.25.
People do this calculation
rather naturally.
The problem is when people multiply
probabilities when they shouldn't.
A particularly stark instance
of incorrectly multiplying
probabilities occurred in volume 309
of science, which was reporting on
a physician who was on trial for giving
expert testimony in a criminal trial.
The criminal trial involved
a mother who had two
children die from sudden
infant death syndrome.
The expert testimony took the prevalence
of seven, in sudden infant death syndrome
as one out of 8,500, and then multiplied
them together to find the probability
of two children having sudden infant
death syndrome with the same mother.
Based on this evidence, and
I presume other evidence, the mother
on trial was convicted of murder.
Relevant to this class,
the principle mistake was to is,
to multiply probabilities for events
that were not necessarily independent.
And it makes sense that in this case
to assume that the events would be
dependent because any biological
process that has a genetic or
familial environmental component is
likely to be dependent within families.
In this class, the main way we're going to
use independence is that we're going to
assume that a collection of random
variables are independent and
from the same distribution.
Recall such random variables independent
and identically distributed.
So you might think of several coin flips
as IID because they're independent.
One coin flip is independent to,
from the next one.
And they all rise from the same
distribution, 0.5 for heads and
0.5 for tails.
IID sampling is our default model for
a random sample.
So whether we have an actual random sample
or not, we often use random sampling or
I, the model of IID as a conceptual
model to analyze our data.
It'll be our principal mode
of analysis for this class.